Always wash the peel extremely well before use. If possible, prefer organic sources rather than those which have been sprayed, especially for any food or internal use. If you can't get organic fruit, use a very good fruit and vegetable scrub to remove chemical traces.See "Warnings" below for the possibility of dermatitis and allergic reactions to citrus peel.Use the peel of a kumquat to make marmalade. Just cook the chopped peel with sugar-water until it's like a syrup  use your favorite marmalade recipe.Peel a lemon and use it to bathe yourself in the shower. It leaves your body and hair smelling fresh and clean.Infuse lemon peel in your tea to add a delicious lemony taste.

Prepare fresh lemon peelMake candied lemon peelMake lemon brandyCitrus peels such as peel of lemon work well for roasting chicken. Put peel into the chicken and roast. You will find a great smelling and good tasting chicken.Lemon is often used as a cocktail garnish.Use the peel to keep your brown sugar soft by putting it in the packaging with the brown sugar.Make candied orange peel.Make preserved orange peel.Use as a garnish on fruit juice drinks, cocktails, and salads.Use grapefruit peels to cut into shapes to brighten up your salad. All you have to do is sprinkle them over the salad. It will make the salad smell great too.Make grapefruit marmalade or candy it as with other peels.Use the oil distilled from the peel for perfume.[1]
Use to flavor water. Add any citrus peels to a pitcher of water and put in the refrigerator. Now you can enjoy the taste of water even more.

Use any type of citrus peel and candy it. It is very sweet and a great snack for the kids.
Make marmalade, chutney, jam, and savory sauces using citrus peel.[2]
Add a slice of citrus peel to brown sugar to stop the sugar from going hard.

Use citrus peels of any kind to freshen up that smelly garbage disposal. All you have to do is cut up the peel and put it in the disposal.

Peel the skin off the mandarin.Pour 100C (212F) of boiling water into a cup until 3/4 of the cup is filled.Add in the mandarin peels and enjoy your lovely tea.Use as kindling. Any type of citrus peel makes a great kindling for your fireplace in the winter.[3]
Use dried citrus peels to freshen up that smelly sock or underwear drawer. It is best to place the peels inside a sachet first. A sachet is a small perfumed bag used to scent clothes.

Use citrus peels for your bath. It will create a beautiful scent.

Compost your peels.[4] Citrus peel is a great addition to the compost pile. Just be sure to chop them a little to help them to degrade faster. You can use any of the peels to add to a compost pile. It will make the compost pile smell fresh and clean too. Just be aware that some people claim that the anti-bacterial nature of orange oil slows down decomposition,[5] while others don't find it has any impact at all and call this an "urban myth".[6][7] Be your own judge of whether or not there is an issue by observing!

Use any of the citrus peels to keep cats from digging or using your garden as a litter box. Just peel the citrus and place around the garden to keep Fluffy away from your petunias.Chew the peel. You can use preferably orange or lemon peels to make your breath smell great. Chew the peel for a little bit; you'll find it's a good substitute for mints and gum.Place any citrus peels in a pan of low simmering water to freshen up the house.

Orange peel applied to your skin at night will ward off the insects. Simply rub the peel over your exposed skin and repeat whenever the insects start bothering you again.[8]
Place orange or other citrus peel from 2-3 oranges/citrus into a blender with a cup of warm water. Blend into a mixture that can be poured into an anthill that is causing you problems.[9]
Rub citrus peel over the leaves of plants monthly to keep cats away from the leaves.[10]
Place dried citron peel into closets and wardrobes to ward off the moths.[11]
Use citrus peel as a fixative for potpourri. Dry the peel until it turns crisp. Once dried, grind it coarsely and add to potpourri as needed.[12] It should be stored in a glass jar until needed. This can also be added to sachets to keep away moths and to sweeten your clothes.[13] Read How to make citrus potpourri for specific details.The ground powder can be added to the bath for a scented treat.[14]

Extract the oil from citrus peels for use in home-made perfume.
Make citrus perfume.
Make summer citrus soap.


Have the site surveyed or layout the building lines yourself. Batterboards may be used, or corner stakes can be set to allow building lines to be pulled and grades to be established for clearing and grading.Grub out trees, bushes, and other plants, including their roots so they will not leave voids in the subgrade when they decay.
Remove any mucky or otherwise unsuitable material from the subgrade.Proof roll or use another method to compact the disturbed subgrade soil material.Capillary fill is used where moisture may create a problem.
Crushed limestone or other aggregate base materials can be used for slabs with heavy loads like warehouse floors and aircraft hangars.Cohesive materials like clay are sometimes used where the subgrade cannot be sufficiently stabilized using conventional methods.Aerial pumps can place concrete to specific areas of the slab via an articulated boom and hose assembly up to 120 feet (36.6m) from the concrete truck. They are often used for placing concrete on elevated decks or in inaccessible locations.Line pumps also use pipes and hoses to move the concrete from the truck to the placement location, but require a lot of labor to move the hoses around while in use.Concrete buckets can be used for placing the concrete in high locations or inaccessible areas using a crane or forklift.Georgia buckets are self-propelled wagons that can maneuver in tight locations to place concrete.Chuting or tailgating is discharging the concrete directly from the truck into the form.Slump. This test determines the plasticity of the concrete material. A vertical cone shaped mold is filled with concrete and the amount the concrete slumps is measured, to make sure it is not too wet to meet specification for the job.Temperature. Concrete suffers detrimental effects when it becomes too hot, so the temperature of the product is monitored during placement.Air entrainment. Chemicals are added to the concrete to ensure air is entrained in the mixture. These tiny voids will allow the concrete to expand and contract more before cracking when concrete is expected to be subjected to large temperature variations over time. A typical air entrainment requirement is 3-5%.Compressive strength. Concrete strength is measured in PSI (pounds per square inch), and special plastic molds are used to collect samples of the material which are later used in the testing lab's laboratory to determine the concrete's strength.Make sure you have sufficient manpower to perform the job.Check the weather conditions. These factors can contribute to concrete setting times:

Temperature. The higher the temperature, the faster the concrete will set, and very hot conditions will affect the ability of the workers to perform.Humidity. Very low humidity will allow for the water in the concrete to evaporate more quickly.Wind. Wind can increase the speed the surface of the concrete will dry.Cold weather can greatly increase the setting time for concrete. Placing concrete at near freezing temperatures or when freezing conditions are expected during the next 48 hours is not recommended.Sunshine. Concrete will set more quickly in bright sunny conditions than it will in cloudy conditions.If a concrete pump truck is to be used, have it arrive an hour or so early to allow it to be set up and in position, and to let the pump operator get an idea of the placement plan.
Service troweling machines, including checking the controls, the blades, and making sure they are full of engine oil and gasoline.Check straight edges, screed boards, power screeds, and bull floats to make sure they are in good condition.Make sure concrete vibrators are in good condition if the slab requires their use.Check personal safety equipment, such as gloves, rubber boots, and eye protection.Clean and check all hand tools so they are in good working condition.


